---
layout: post
title: Moving to Octopress from Blogger
date: 2013-12-15 15:17:07 -0800
comments: true
categories: 
 - blog
 - development
---

After eight years using Blogger, I've finally decided to move away. One of the first reasons I first started using it in high school was because Blogger was one of the only free hosting services I knew where I could also control the styling; but after several Blogger updates, and several years of telling myself I'd eventually learn Blogger syntax well enough to style as I like, I've given up. I have other things I'd rather do than invest time parsing Blogger, and Octopres offers more built-in tools <em>and</em> flexibility: I can have <a href="http://octopress.org/docs/blogging/code/">nice code snippets</a> and have whatever extra scripts I'd like without worrying they'd interfere with Blogger esoterica. Additionally, after reading <a href="https://medium.com/p/c7cc156bc5d9">this article</a> I've been a little more wary of data ownership, and with Octopress, I can host on Github where I know everything is mine.

I've also been eyeing <a href="https://ghost.org/">ghost</a> recently and though it looks awesome, I decided against it for now for several reasons. Currently, there's no easy way to import posts from Blogger, and I didn't want to deal with the extra overhead of figuring out where to host. A couple days ago I received access to Ghost's subscription hosting, but I don't want to commit to paying money when this blog is mostly for lolzy purposes.

So, this is how I got my blog set up again:

<h2>Get Octopress Up and Running</h2>
To actually figure out how to get Octopress running, I referenced several tutorials:
<ol>
<li><a href="http://octopress.org/docs/blogging/">Octopress: Blogging Basics</a></li>
<li><a href="http://webdesign.tutsplus.com/tutorials/applications/getting-started-with-octopress/">Webdesign Tuts+: Getting started with Octopress</a></li>
<li><a href="http://blog.ialja.com/2013/03/22/goodbye-blogger-hello-octopress/">iAlja's Blog: Goodbye Blogger, Hello Octopress!</a></li>
</ol>

<h2>Convert Old Blogger Posts to Be Octopress-Readable</h2> 
From one of the previous links, I learned how to convert all my old posts to a form Octopress could work with. To do it, open up your old blog in blogger, then go to <code>Settings &gt; Other &gt; Export</code> to download your blog as an XML file. Then, I used <a href="https://gist.github.com/juniorz/1564581">this script</a> to run the conversion.

I ran into some issues here, mostly with titles that contained quotation marks or tags that contained colons; whenever this happened I went through the XML and just removed the symbols that were causing things to explode.

<h2>Deploy to Github Pages</h2>
Finally, I followed <a href="http://octopress.org/docs/deploying/github/">these instructions</a> to deploy my blog for free to Github Pages. I still ran into some problems here — when I deployed, the online version of the blog on Github lacked all styles and scripts — this requried a change to the <code>root</code> in config.yml to be <code>/liwanag</code>, since on Github the blog is acccessed through the URL http://neauro.github.io/liwanag. Making this change to root upsets the styles and scripts linking locally, though...so I've still got to iron this out and find the magical tweaks that will allow one root value to work both locally and online. There's also the matter that my blog is big enough that running "rake generate" takes a minute or so to run...but I'm willing to accept that for now.

<h2>That's it!</h2>
As one final change, I've changed the name of this blog. Previously, it was "nuubu" — a romanization of "noob" spelled in Japanese, chosen offhandedly because I originally intended this blog to be my corner for new things I've learned. Because "nuubu" may be appropriative, and because I don't feel particularly strongly about clinging to the identity of "noob" anyway, I've now named it "liwanag," which means "light" in Tagalog. To be honest, I couldn't really think of another name at the time, and "liwanag" just sounds nice and makes me think of how blog-writing (that is, writing for an unknwon audience, or "bringing things to light") helps me think more clearly.

<a href="http://nuubu.blogspot.com">nuubu</a> remains active, because many of the images linked to here point to where they've been uploaded on Blogger, and because I don't want to lose what little bit of popularity those posts have accumulated (specifically, the Rosetta Stone error, and Alpacasso). But overall I'm excited and happy for this bright new world. ✧ʕ̢̣̣̣̣̩̩̩̩·͡˔·ོɁ̡̣̣̣̣̩̩̩̩✧
