---
layout: post
title: "Frozen"
date: 2013-12-18 09:24:39 -0800
comments: true
categories: [movie]
---
A and I went to see *Frozen*, a movie I had very little interest in seeing until I realized Idina Menzel was voicing a main character. There's been a lot said already for the lack of diversity amongst the characters (regarding both <a href="">race</a>, as well as <a href="http://sapphicdalliances.tumblr.com/post/68881922280">the representation of women</a>) and my disappointment about these issues in *Frozen* has exhausted me utterly. I don't want to talk about it. Instead, I want to note aspects of the overall story that A and I discussed after the movie.

[ spoilers ahead ]

## *Frozen* is about Elsa and Anna
This is great. From the trailers, there was almost no indication that the story's main conflict involved the relationship between two women. Anna struggles somewhat with the men in the story, and though she desires "true love" at its beginning, lovers never usurp her existing relationship with her sister. At the end, Anna even plays the main role in saving both Elsa and herself, through the power of ~*True Love*~! Hurray!

## But what does *Frozen* do with "True Love"?
"True Love" seems to be Frozen's theme. Elsa's version of True Love is "Don't harm those who you love," and requires her to isolate herself as a precaution to harming her sister; the fact that doing so makes both her and Anna unhappy are not as important as the possiblity that Anna may be harmed. By the end of the movie, Elsa realizes (somewhat abruptly) that her version of True Love is flawed, presumably because her feelings of fear were controlling her ability to love.

In contrast, Anna's version of true love — which could be described as "Always believe in someone that you love" — has absolutely no fear involved. Despite everyone's warnings and panic, Anna continues to believe the best of Elsa, even when Elsa actually *does* harm her. Ultimately, her love for Elsa allows Elsa to accept herself, somewhat abruptly, at the end of the movie, as if the word "love" itself were inherently magical.

I like how Elsa and Anna's interpretations of love are contrasted in this movie, but one thing I don't like is that, though Elsa's view of love evolves through the movie, Anna's remains static. From the beginning Anna is the same "open to loving people!" character that she is shown to be from the beginning, despite events that show people can harm her: Elsa ostracizes her, Love Interest #1 (Hanns) betrays her. That these events don't change her outlook on life feels like a waste; rather than actively choosing to love people, for Anna it's just a given, and this takes away from her complexity and agency as a character.

What's worse is that the events of the movie are put into motion by Elsa's fear that she might kill Anna, and by the end of the movie, it's revealed that there was no way that Elsa could have ever killed Anna. The entire time, Anna had a magical understanding of "True Love" that could have *always* saved her from Elsa's power, which makes the entire plot somewhat of a non-issue.

## And what did the other characters do?
Given that the movie's main conflict is Elsa and Anna's relationship, and true love, the other major characters — Kristoff, Olaf, and Hanns — all felt thrown in, though I think that they all had potential to serve the "true love" theme with a little more focus. For example, why is it important that Kristoff is a seller of ice, and what was the point of the opening scene that is dedicated to showing his failure at selling ice? You learn later that Kristoff was adopted by the stone trolls, and distrusts other humans; so if Kristoff was actually homeless at the beginning of the movie, why did he have a sled and ice-harvesting tools at his disposal? (Or was he not homeless? Are we just supposed to be okay with his abduction?) Kristoff's distrust of humans was also played up, without explanation of how it came to be, as if he had dropped out of the sky as a perfectly-formed gruff male love interest. Treated differently, Kristoff could have been a great catalyst for Anna's development: he teaches her about the horrible things humans do; she fights it ("No way, humans are inherently Lawful Good!"); Kristoff points out that her sister is laying waste to their kingdom and also has been pretty mean; Anna cracks a bit; and then, right on cue, she is betrayed again by Hanns. *omg will she now become totally jaded? or will she still choose looove?*

Olaf was a character I grimaced at in the trailers for the movie and ended up being pleasantly entertained by. Even though his main purpose is comedic entertainment, it would have been nice to see more about how he affects Anna and Elsa's relationship. He seems to be their precious childhood snowman, and, to be honest, is the only indication Anna has that Elsa doesn't actually despite her

[[ oh look, i'm impaled ]]

